=head1 NAME

Test::Smoke roadmap - Roadmap for Test::Smoke development

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This document states my intensions for the development of
L<Test::Smoke>.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When I took over the maintenance of the B<Test::Smoke> package it was
at version 1.13. Shortly after that I released version 1.16 that fixed
some stuff that was closely related to changes in the perl-sources.


=head2 Test::Smoke 1.17

The intention for version 1.17 is to pull development for all
supported Operating Systems together and develop a more userfriendly
suite.

On release the source-tree for Test::Smoke will be split off to have a
maintenance branch (1.17.xx) and the maintenance releases will be
numbered accordingly.

=head2 Test::Smoke 1.18

The intention for version 1.18 is to untangle the build configurations
mess and clean up F<mktest.pl>. Development (alpha) releases will start
at version 1.17_50.

=head2 Test::Smoke 1.19

The intention for version 1.19 is to untangle the reports
mess and clean up F<mkovz.pl>. Development (alpha) releases will
start at version 1.18_50.

=head2 Test::Smoke 1.20

1.20 had some features added (compiler messages, VMS support) and bugs
fixed.

=head2 Test::Smoke 1.21

I want to release more often and increase versions more often, so that
CPAN will install the latest version.

=head2 Test::Smoke 1.40

Added commitbits for Tux and Bram.

=head2 Test::Smoke 1.50

Support for:

=over

=item Smoke from gitsnapshot

This is now the way to get to a snapshot.

=item Smoke from gitrepository

Plan is to accept a perl.git directory and a branchname.
For smoking we'll create a new branch I<smokebranch> from the designated
branch. This I<smokebranch> will be checked out and this is where we start
smoking. At the beginning of each smokerun the I<smokebranch> will be deleted
by force and created again.

git clone URL --reference /local/path

=item Metabase/CPANTesters2

The intention is to move the smoke reports to metabase/cpantesters2. This
requires dependenies for Test::Smoke, but it will gain us a basis for a much
better interface to the results.

=back

=head2 Test::Smoke 2.00

The intention for 2.00 is to restructure the configuration
stuff. Development releases will start at version 1.99.

=head1 Test::Smoke repository

The Test::Smoke sources are kept in a publicly accessable
subversion repository from which anyone can check them out.

=over

=item the main trunk can be checked out

    svn co http://source.test-smoke.org/svn/Test-Smoke

=item the 1.4x maint branch can be checked out

    svn co http://source.test-smoke.org/svn/Test-Smoke-1.30.xx

=item snapshots get there own branche:

this means that (development) version 1.19_86 can be found here:

    svn co http://source.test-smoke.org/svn/snapshots/Test-Smoke-1.19_86

=item rsync archive

both development track and maintenance track have their own rsync archive:

    rsync://source.test-smoke.org/ts-current

    rsync://source.test-smoke.org/ts-maint

=back

=head1 REVISION

$id: roadmap.pod 243 2003-07-18 13:39:42z abeltje $

=head1 COPYRIGHT

(c) MMII, MMVII, All rights reserved.

  * Abe Timmerman <abeltje@cpan.org>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as perl itself.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

=cut
